Let's take a look at creating and querying a spark view,
and sinking that information to Kafka.
The first thing I want to is see if Kafka is up and running.
Now if you've been using the workspace included with the course,
a lot of times you don't have to start Kafka again because it's already running.
Especially if you've already done an exercise without leaving your computer,
it's probably still up.
The way to check this is running ps-ef.
Here, I see several Java processes running that tells me Kafka is up.
The next thing I want to do is go ahead and check if Spark is running.
It's the same command and I've already run it.
Here I'm going to look through the output and see
two different processes, both running Spark.
That tells me that Spark is up and running. Now we're ready to go.
I've imported the SparkSession library,
so I can go ahead and start coding by creating a SparkSession.
First I'm going to say,
create that session and I'm going to name it spark.
I'm going to call my app name gear-position.
Now this name will only show up in the Spark logs.
It's not too important but we might as well name it something useful.
Now we're going to set the LogLevel to warn,
which reduces a lot of unnecessary output.
Last, I'm going to take the SparkSession I've created and connect to Kafka.
When doing that, I will get a data frame that represents the Kafka connection.
We're going to call that data frame something useful.
We'll call it gearPositionRawStreamingDF for data frame.
We're going to read it from a spark connection.
We're going to access the readStream.
We want it to talk to Kafka.
We're going to see dot format Kafka.
Now, we need to tell it where the Kafka server is running.
That's where ours is running on our computer, on our server.
Here, we need this topic to match
exactly the topic that we know the data will be coming from.
The name of our topic is gear-position,
and this needs to match it without any change at all.
We want to read all the information that Kafka has in this topic.
We're going to say, "Give me the earliest."
I'm just missing that character.
Then we're going to tell to load that dataframe.
Now this dataframe represents the data exactly as it came from Kafka,
which is in binary format.
We want to create another dataframe that's not in binary format.
We're going to go to the gearPositionRawStreamingDF,
and we're going to select the data in a format that's not binary.
The key in this case is a string when we're done with it,
and it's the trackId.
Then the value is going to be a string as well.
The key and value are fields that come by default when we read from Kafka,
in case you're wondering what those are from.
We're renaming both of them to something meaningful.
In this case, the value is our gearPosition.
Now we've got a dataframe that has meaningful fields that are in string format.
I've got that gearPositionStreamingdataframe and I'm going to save it as a view.
I've created that view called GearPosition.
Now I can select the data from it.
Now I can use any valid SQL statement,
and my favorite SQL statement is by far the select star statement.
It's often used for ad hoc querying.
This is kind of an ad hoc query.
We're just wanting to see what data we got from Kafka to start out with.
I'm going to say, select star from GearPosition.
Now I've got that dataframe that has the results of that query.
It should have two fields.
What are they? TrackId and gearPosition.
Those two fields are in this dataframe.
I'm going to go ahead and cast
that data back into the field names that Kafka wants them as.
What are the two field names that Kafka gave me by default?
You guys remember trackId was the one I named it,
but it actually was called key.
We're going to give it to Kafka in a way that it can understand.
It understands keys and values.
We're going to call trackId, key.
We're going to cast both the trackId and the gearPosition as strings.
It will actually convert them to binary
eventually but we're passing them as strings in the beginning.
The other field we need to pass is value.
So we're going to pass it a value.
That's our gearPosition.
Now we're going to go in reverse back into Kafka,
so instead of a readStream,
we have a writeStream.
We're still going to have a format called Kafka.
We still need to provide the Bootstrap options.
We're going to give it a localhost.
We're sending it back to the same broker that we got from
in the beginning but we are putting it in
a different topic because this data is going to
be in theory enriched data from the original.
The topic we're creating as a new topic called gear-position-updates.
We're going to use another option that we haven't seen before called checkpointLocation.
CheckpointLocation needs to be a file path
that the Spark worker has access to as a write,
so it can actually write to it.
This is just a temporary file that's used by Spark during processing.
Because TMP is often a good place for
temporary data and it usually has write access for every user,
I'm going to use /tmp.
Now we're going to tell it to start streaming and we're going to awaitTermination,
which means, run indefinitely.
I'm going to go into the home workspace,
spark directory and list.
I have a script already for this called submit-gear-position.sh.
I'm going to run that script.
The main point of it is to make the command easier to run.
We're getting this started,
and it's pulling in all the Kafka libraries that it needs.
You can see that and some other libraries.
We have an error on line 6.
It says, "The builder object has no attribute sparkContext."
The problem is right here.
I've got just a builder and I haven't actually told it to create it.
The builder alone isn't a session.
We have to tell the builder to create the session.
So I've added that and we'll repeat our command.
Now we're waiting for output.
It says that, the cast value string gearPosition,
says there's an error in that,
input string and it was expecting a paren,
cast value string gearPosition.
It's talking about this one.
It should say, cast a value as string gearPosition.
Let's fix that and run it again.
An error occurred, cannot resolve cast trackId as string key,
given input positions, input columns, gearposition.trackId, gearposition.gearPosition.
I'm just looking at my select statement.
I selected everything from gearPosition into this gearPositionSelectStarDF.
Given input columns, gearposition.trackId, gearposition.gearPosition.
I guess normally what I would do is start looking at
the raw streaming data frame because
that's the value that we're having issues getting into a different format.
What I think I'm going to,
I'm take this and stream it to the console.
I have a feeling we're going to learn something by doing this.
I'm going to save that file.
Now, I'm going to run it.
We should see data up until this point.
What that means is that
the stream up until this point is working correctly,
and so the data coming in is correct.
This select is working right.
It's most likely the casting that's happening here that's causing us issues.
What I'm going to do is just for troubleshooting,
I'm going to change this to key and this to value.
Then, in this code,
I'm going to comment out this one.
I'm going to change key as key string key and value as string value.
I'm just going to save that and run that again.
Now let's see if the error is different, which it is.
We know we've found the right thing that's failing.
The thing that's failing is this select.
Oh, the problem is,
we're not using selectExpr.
So it's in select expression instead of just dot select.
I'm going to save that.
Then we're going to run it again.
Now you'll notice that the data is not printing out on the screen. Why is that?
The data is not printing on the screen because we didn't tell it to.
This is how we send it to the screen.
We're sending it to a Kafka topic.
Let's go look at the Kafka topic.
I'm just clearing my screen.
In your Kafka installation,
you will have a folder.
Now, this is how it is in the workspace but your Kafka will be in a different place.
There's a sub-folder though called bin.
If you list that, you'll find a thing called kafka-console-consumer.
That's the utility that you can use to connect to a topic.
I'm going to call it --bootstrap-server localhost 9092 that tells me that broker.
I'm going to tell it the topic name.
Then I'm going say from the beginning,
and there's my values that I'm getting.
You'll notice we don't see the keys like we did earlier.
We saw the track numbers before trackids.
But now we're just getting what's in this column.
This utility only gives you the values from Kafka.
That's what it looks like to take data from Kafka,
massage it a little bit,
and then stream it back to a Kafka topic.
I'm going to kill this by saying Control C,
and I've stopped that.
I'm going to kill this one by saying Control C as well.
Just remember when submitting a Kafka Spark application,
you need the appropriate Kafka library.
The version number of the library should match the version of Spark you're running,
and the scripts that we've run have included that for you.
In this case, we're running this library with Version
2.4.6 because that matches the version of Spark that we're running.
Now let's look at the solution to the ATM visits issue.